Think back for a moment on how Jehovah supported his organization in ancient times.
One example is Bezileu.
Do you remember him?
Jehovah appointed him to make furnishings for the tabernacle.
That's quite a responsibility.
But what experience did Bezileu have?
His last job was making bricks in Egypt.
While it is possible he had some other skills, how would he accomplish something as grand
as the tabernacle?
Exodus chapter 35 teaches us that it was Jehovah, that gave Bezileu the wisdom and the
understanding to do the work.
Jehovah's earthly organization today faces similar challenges.
The brothers that took the lead in setting up our first primary had no prior experience.
And the same applies to brothers that produced our very first video.
You will enjoy this archive interview with Brother Lyman Swingle, who was part of that
very first video team.
Brother Swingle was later appointed as a member of the governing body until he finished
his earthly course in 2001.
The headquarters of the Watchtower Bible and Track Society, a center of new world action.
We were given instructions while finding out make a film of world headquarters and what
we do here and show it in film.
Well, I thought it was a great idea myself because I was interested in photography.
Bethel means the house of God.
How many people would like to visit here and don't have the opportunity and let them see
what the new world society is in action because I think a tour through this place will give
them the concept of the whole organization.
They appointed a team of three to write a script.
So they put this script together.
Just across the East River from all this.
There was a brother in Hollywood that was connected with the film industry.
He was sort of an amateur photographer and he was around them all the time and knew their
techniques.
It's like many other things the society does.
They don't have professionals that do it.
No, mostly they're brought in here and they learn.
Maybe they have a brother like this brother that came here that knew some of the basics.
We went over to New York and rented the lights and many of the equipment that was necessary.
All he did is bring brought his camera here.
At his desk, the society's president, Brother Norris, we thought, well, be best to start
with a president's office and work down through copy, follow the copy through its various
processes.
We all work together for one purpose, one does one thing, someone does something else,
someone working in the treasurer's office, someone has to be president, someone has to
be dishwashers and serve food.
It's like the organs in the body, Paul said, you know, the hand can't say to the foot
I have no need of you, we all need everybody.
Here is the publication of the New World Society.
Jehovah has fed us through its pages and he will continue to do so.
After they had shot it, well then it had run longer taking it than they expected it got
into the time of convention and the brother says, oh, he says, why don't we take the convention
and put it on here too?
And so, well, why don't we do it in color?
Color, those days was really something and that even gave the film a much bigger boost
when they've been looking at the black and white and then suddenly they get a burst of
color for the convention.
They had the trailer camp where everybody camped out there, Yankee Stadium and all of that
in color.
Oh, that really made a real climax to that picture because you weren't used to seeing
color except in the big theaters.
In the evening, the students told of life a gillian and entertained with a pleasant program
of songs from their native lands.
There were some very trying moments wondering whether it's ever going to be completed because
after we shot it, the brother that shot it was going to edit it too.
But something came up in his life, he couldn't do it.
Now we're stuck, what are we going to do?
So then the decision is, well, let's do it ourselves.
We'd never done it before, but we'll tackle it and see what we can do.
And we got a lab over in New York that we made a deal with them.
Look, we'll give you the business to duplicate these.
If you take somebody over there and show them how to edit this thing, so for a few weeks
I went over there.
It's like any project here.
Every job here for the average Bethelite that comes in, he doesn't know anything about
running a press or washing dishes or anything else, we teach him.
So that was just another job you learn how to do it.
Making things these, but it is Jehovah's spirit that makes them possible.
It is his work, not man's.
After we did the original while we started editing it, we saw there were some gaps in
the film, not smooth dissolves from one department to another.
And so the brother had gone away, so we rented a camera again on lights and so on and came
back and did it all on our own, the brothers here, filled in some gaps so we could go from
some scene to another scene real smooth like.
One of those shows how do you get the paper from the docks up to the press room?
So we had a scene where they're rolling the paper off the truck right into the camera.
And then the next scene shows a roll of paper being rolled onto the press and that made
a nice transition from the docks where the paper comes in to the press room.
And there were some others like that that we filled in later.
Was a compliment to Jehovah's people putting out something like that back in those days.
But it illustrates that you don't have to go off to college and get a high education
to do something if Jehovah's spirit is upon it and blesses the project.
Many people have benefited from it and it often in my mind throws back to what the brothers
did when they made the photodrama creation.
They too were amateurs at it, but my goodness, look at the final product.
But this one here was really the only film I think the society made where they planned
out a script, wrote the script, and then followed through and shooting it and editing it
and producing it themselves.
It's the same way today when the society undertakes something, they strike out in open space
and start flying.
They never flew before, but maybe they have a few crash landings along the way, but they
pick themselves up and get back up flying again.
The New World Society is indeed in action.
I think it's another example of how the society has used technology and various features to
further the advertising of the king and the kingdom all down through the years.